hero Honda's futures all set to be
decided ending a 25 year partnership
Honda is on the verge of selling its
stake in the venture to the Hiro group
and some investment funds Honda an hero
and now seeking approval from their
respective boards this month and the
deal is likely to close out at one point
two billion dollars discount of more
than 40% of the current market price but
still plenty of sticking points that
need to be ironed out yes an alliance of
26 years comes down to a 26% stake
mundial family led hero honda is the
world's largest two wheeler manufacturer
but its two partners are finally ready
to call it quits sources have shared
with NDTV that the deal will close by
March 2011 and Honda Motor Company will
sell its 26% stake for 1.2 billion
dollars here's how its stake will be
carved up 5.2% stake will be bought by
the Mongols while the balance 20.8% will
be picked up by the private equity
players the moon jobs will buy back that
nearly 21 percent or the next five years
a technology agreement signed between
the two shall hold till 2014 with Honda
committed to supply three to four bike
models to Hero Honda in that timeframe
minority shareholders have voiced their
disapproval of the deal feeling shafted
but there are still some creases in the
agreement royalty is the biggest
stumbling block Honda's initial demand
was for 10 to 11 percent royalty payout
till 2014 this was rejected by the Hiro
family the moon jobs were willing to
settle for 4 to 6 percent royalty
depending on the model since some board
members are against even 8% the likely
solution could see a two part royalty
structure 2 to 3% as it is currently
till 2012 and then 8% for 2013 and 14
Honda in Hero Group refused to comment
despite repeated requests by NDTV
socials within the family have also
indicated that munjal family settlement
reached in June this year also saw Hiro
Honda's future become the most
contentious issue many family members
did not agree with Honda's proposed exit
or higher royalty payout to Honda post
such a deal Hiro's buyout of Honda had
to be then vetted by all senior munjal
family members and the family settlement
took into account
Hiro Honda's valuation post a deal all
cross holdings were then dissolved
to ensure that bridge mohanlal family
gets total control of hero honda
eventually so now on it's all about
working the mats and making the mats
work for individual votes on both sides
he don't want our sources indicate that
this real being announced before the
Christmas break is highly unlikely
Bridget urban I partner in New Delhi in
Mumbai peasant occurs any TV profit